RNAhybrid is a tool for finding  minimum  free  energy  (mfe)  hybridisations  of  a  long
	(target) and a short (query) RNA. The hybridisation is performed in a kind of domain mode,
	ie. the short sequence is hybridised to the best fitting parts of the long one.  The  tool
	is  primarily  meant  as a means for microRNA target prediction.  In addition to mfes, the
	program calculates p-values based on extreme  value  distributions  of  length  normalised
	energies.

OPTIONS
	-h     Give a short summary of command line options.

	-b hit_number
			Maximal number of hits to show. hit_number hits with increasing minimum free energy
			(reminder: larger energies are worse) are shown, unless the -e option is  used  and
			the  energy  cut-off  has  been exceeded (see -e option below) or there are no more
			hits. Hits may only overlap at dangling bases (5' or 3' unpaired end of target).

	-c     Produce compact output. For each target/query pair one line of output is generated.
			Each line is a colon (:) separated list of the following fields: target name, query
			name, minimum free energy, position in target, alignment line 1, line  2,  line  3,
			line  4.  If  a  target  or  a  query  is  given  on  command line (ie. no -t or -q
			respectively), its name in the output will be "command line".

	-d xi,theta
			xi and theta are the position and shape parameters,  respectively,  of  an  extreme
			value distribution (evd). p-values of duplex energies are assumed to be distributed
			according to such an evd. For a length normalised energy en, we have P[X <= en] = 1
			-  exp(-exp(-(-en-xi)/theta)), where en = e/log(m*n) with m and n being the lengths
			of the target and the query, respectively. If the -d  option  is  omitted,  xi  and
			theta  are estimated from the maximal duplex energy of the query, assuming a linear
			dependence. The parameters of this linear dependence are coded  into  the  program,
			but the option -s has to be given to choose from the appropriate set. Note that the
			evd is mirrored, since good mfes are large negative values.

	-s set_name
			Used for quick estimate of extreme value distribution  parameters  (see  -d  option
			above).  Tells  RNAhybrid  which  target  dataset  to  assume. Valid parameters are
			3utr_fly, 3utr_worm and 3utr_human.

	-e energy_cutoff
			Hits with increasing minimum free energy (reminder: larger energies are worse) less
			than  or  equal  to  energy_cutoff  are shown, unless the -b option is used and the
			number of already reported hits has reached the maximal hit_number (see  -b  option
			above). Hits may only overlap at dangling bases (5' or 3' unpaired end of target).

	-p p-value_cutoff
			Only  hits  with  p-values  not  larger than p-value_cutoff are reported.  See also
			options -d and -s.

	-f from,to
			Forces all structures to have a helix  from  position  from  to  position  to  with
			respect to the query. The first base has position 1.

	-m max_target_length
			The  maximum  allowed  length of a target sequence. The default value is 2000. This
			option only has an effect if a target file is given with the -t option (see below).

	-n max_query_length
			The maximum allowed length of a query sequence.  The  default  value  is  30.  This
			option only has an effect if a query file is given with the -q option (see below).

	-u iloop_upper_limit
			The  maximally allowed number of unpaired nucleotides in either side of an internal
			loop.

	-v bloop_upper_limit
			The maximally allowed number of unpaired nucleotides in a bulge loop.

	-g (ps|png|jpg|all)
			Produce a plot of the hybridisation, either in ps, png or jpg format,  or  for  all
			formats  together.  The  plots  are saved in files whose names are created from the
			target and query names ("command_line" if given on the command line).  This  option
			only works, if the appropriate graphics libraries are present.

	-t target_file
			Each  of  the target sequences in target_file is subject to hybridisation with each
			of the queries (which either are from the query_file or is the one query  given  on
			command  line;  see -q below). The sequences in the target_file have to be in FASTA
			format, ie. one line starting with a > and directly followed by a name, then one or
			more  following  lines with the sequence itself. Each individual sequence line must
			not have more than 1000 characters. If no -t is given, either the last argument (if
			a  -q  is  given)  or  the second last argument (if no -q is given) to RNAhybrid is
			taken as a target.

	-q query_file
			See -t option above.